so you've taken the IELTS test and maybe
you scored 5.56 645 in writing and
you're wondering how can I reach band 7
that's what this video is all about I'm
going to give you seven practical ways
to increase your score to band 7
in addition to these seven steps I'm
gonna issue you two challenges and at
the end I have one freebie for you so
hang in there
step 1 know the rules the IELTS writing
test and speaking test is marked by an
examiner using four criteria now the
real criteria is kept quite secret or
confidential by IELTS but they do have a
public version which is easily
accessible and this public version is
very close to the real criteria so why
do you need criteria in a writing test
isn't it just the test of your language
well the criteria ensures that everybody
examiner's and candidates like you
everybody knows the rules and the
examiners all mark everybody according
to the same rules so how do you know
what these rules are well one is you can
look at the marking criteria of course
and if you're not in the e2 system where
we talk about the criteria all the time
it really is up to you to familiarize
yourself with the writing criteria if
you are in the e2 system you'll know in
our live classes both here and on our
platform we refer to the marking
criteria all the time so I'm going to
give you an example of why it's really
important to understand the criteria
this is the public criteria the bearing
descriptors for IELTS writing task 1 now
as you know general IELTS and academic
IELTS have completely different tasks
ones but they do use the same criteria
with a few minor differences all of
these differences are in the task
achievement column notice that a for
academic and GT which means general
training so if you scored a 5.56 or 6.5
it could be because you scored six or
five in this section so let's have a
look down here at band five and in
particular the two middle bullet points
for academic person who scores band 5
here recounts detailed mechanic
with no clear overview and there may be
no data to support the description
overview and data these two words are
critical when it comes to academic task
1 and if you go into the exam with no
idea of what they mean you could be in
for an unfortunate surprise with your
results for general training in band 5
of task achievement the writer may
present a purpose for the letter that is
unclear at times and the tone may be
variable and sometimes inappropriate so
for general training tone and purpose
are two very important things for you to
think about so that is the bad 5
criteria for one of the sections task
achievement what's in band 7 well I know
that our two students know this very
well if you're not sure click on the
links below download the criteria and
find out step 2 make your writing
original and authentic I'm talking here
about your language and to some extent
your ideas the development of those
ideas and your supporting reasons and
examples let's have a look at an
introduction that is not original or
authentic this is the kind of writing an
examiner often sees nowadays the issue
of blah blah has become a hotly debated
topic in society while there are strong
arguments in favor there are also
several reasons to oppose it this essay
will examine both these views and come
to a reasoned conclusion this is a very
dull way to write examiner's read this
type of thing all the time and it
doesn't give any indication of what you
can do as a writer in English it also
doesn't really make sense people will
often substitute blah blah for something
like the issue of junk food has become a
hotly debated topic has it really the
issue of pets has become a hotly debated
topic the issue of school sport this
kind of writing really needs to be
avoided if you want to score bouncy
eight or nine so this brings me to my
first challenge imagine you had this
essay topic sport should be compulsory
in school to what extent do you agree or
disagree I want you to write an
introduction in the comment section and
make it original and authentic so
completely forget about the introduction
that I just showed you pause now and
have a go at writing an introduction
that is original and authentic something
that only you could have written here's
an example for many children's school
sports classes are a source of either
great joy or for those less physically
fit great anxiety there are however some
who would like to see them made
compulsory for all students personally
well I do not think high school students
should be forced to do sport I do agree
that primary schools ought to include
these lessons this is a much better
introduction step three only deal with
experts if you're looking for an IELTS
coach or an IELTS teacher make sure that
they know the criteria inside-out and
also check that they can write a really
high level task one and task two
themselves you can't teach what you
don't know and by the way your teacher
doesn't have to be a native speaker
what's important is that they know the
criteria everything comes down to that
criteria step four read read read if you
want to improve your writing you've got
to read more why well reading exposes
you to a wide range of language
collocations as well as ideas you also
get to see how high-level and authentic
writing is structured notice the
introduction notice the topic sentences
notice the way that the sentences are
connected to each other
all of that can inform your own writing
so let me share with you some of the
reading resources
we love here at e2 the conversation
ScienceDaily the Guardian the BBC
National Geographic and the New
Scientist all of these are available
just with a quick google and they are a
rich resource for your IELTS preparation
this brings me to challenge to a pretty
easy one I'll show you a recent task 2
essay question and I want you to find an
article find something to read and share
it with us in the comments here's the
topic some think that a country's
success is completely dependent on
economic progress while others believe
that other factors are also important
what are the different factors
contributing to the success of a country
do you believe that one factor is more
important than others so I just want you
to jump on Google and find something by
the way I don't want you to find an
IELTS essay I want you to find something
authentic something from one of those
resources possibly typing something like
how to measure a country's success or
add the publication name to the start
like the conversation how to measure a
country's success so here's your
challenge again let me explain it
clearly number one find an article just
google it number two read it and number
three share the link in the comments
below and share your own thoughts on the
article just so that I know you've
really read it step 5
practice so this is a really obvious one
but if you're at home on your own how do
you do it well on e to language there is
a whole section on IELTS writing in the
course on e to language comm we have a
whole section on writing task 1 and
writing task 2 with lots of videos and
activities to help you improve if you're
an e to mmm
come along to our live classes we have
several writing classes per week some of
them on YouTube all of them on e to
language comm in those classes the
teacher directs you the teacher sets the
timer you don't really have to think
Matt well you do have to think but the
main thing is that you turn up and
follow the teachers directions if you're
not ready to write in that sort of high
pressure time situation you can also
refer to the recorded classes section on
the website you can register for our
live classes through the calendar on
your dashboard or click on the button
live classes and click register you can
find our recorded classes over here and
simply click on a class that you want to
watch and the video will pop up by the
way if you're preparing for paper
delivered IELTS make sure you do your
practice with a pen or pencil because
you're writing muscles if you're
anything like me are probably not in
peak condition
step 6 plan ahead think about when your
test is coming up and what you need to
do between now and then to ensure you
score seven plus here are some questions
to think about as you plan your IELTS
preparation firstly where am I now what
is your score at the moment and not just
your overall score what's your score for
each section of the test and each
criterion where do I want to go what
score do you need to get how long do I
have
when's your test coming up and also how
much time do I have per day be realistic
about it you won't be able to spend 24
hours a day studying for the test the
first question the where am I now a
question is a critical one to ask and
it's not just about your score so let's
say that you did score 6.5 in your last
test or in your practice test there
could be a variety of reasons why that
happened if you scored 6.5 because your
vocabulary
beautiful are outstanding but perhaps
you didn't answer the question clearly
or maybe your opinion was given too late
in the essay or your paragraphs
structure was a mess those sort of
problems are actually very easy to fix
you can fix that almost overnight but on
the other hand if you scored 6.5 because
your grammar and your vocabulary were
full of errors but perhaps you did
answer the question your opinion was
clear your paragraphs were structured
right that's a different matter and
those errors grammar errors vocab errors
can take a lot longer to improve so find
out where you are now in as much detail
as possible and that's where the experts
come into it step 7 beware of myths we
have a whole video about this so I won't
go into it but be aware of the weird
myths that are out there can I repeat a
word from the question of course you can
can I say I in the essay of course you
can there is a lot of misinformation
follow the link on your screen and find
out what we think you need to know so
quick recap of the 7 steps to ban 7 in
writing know the rules
if you don't know the rules how are you
going to win make your writing original
and authentic get rid of those stock
standard phrases only deal with experts
read read and read some more practice as
much as you can plan ahead and beware of
those myths so its freebie time earlier
I shared with you an introduction from
an essay about sport and I want to share
with you our topic toolkit number 17
which is all about sports our each of
you topic toolkits contain 20 words 20
bits of vocabulary to deal with this
topic
speaking questions in this case lots of
speaking questions about sport essay
topics and a sample essay and some links
to some real
useful resources follow the link below
to download it Ben 7 and above is not
impossible
but it can take some hard work I hope
that these 7 steps have been useful for
you and if you don't feel confident
taking those steps on your own come and
join us our eetu language that's what
we're here for
we are a fully online test preparation
provider we can give you feedback on
your writing as well as your speaking
you can take one-on-one tutorials with
us join our daily life group classes
access our course materials and heaps
more find us at e tu language comm
thanks for watching see you next time
you